README.md, before:

# BremertonRoundTrip

This is the repository for an informal hack project launched Aug 20-22 during the LSST collaboration meeting in Bremerton, WA.

The goal of this project is try and assemble a "round-trip" weak-lensing reference analysis that is suitable for
studying the impact of pixel-level systematics on cosmology.  The flow chart below shows the basic round-trip structure. Dashed blue lines show short cuts that provide intermediate comparison points and allow higher- and lower-level paths to be developed and tested independently.

Although our goals sound ambitious, the idea is to ruthlessly simplify each component and aim for a chain that is
complete rather than of high fidelity. A lot of detailed work is already in progress on pieces of this, so the
goal here is to "see the whole elephant" rather than work on an ear or a tusk.

Many of necessary pieces already exist so much of the work will involve selecting suitable code or algorithms from
the literature and figuring out how to connect them together.  The results will hopefully have some pedagogical value,
at least, and the process should help reveal where more effort is most needed to get scientifically useful results.

Our initial goal is to build a functional complete round trip rather than designing a software framework.  With this in mind, we are aiming for a set of reproducible recipes for performing each step and transfering data between them.

## Update for the 24-Aug-2015 WL telecon

We had a brief meeting as a group (Kirkby, Slosar, Walter, Burchat, Meyers, Roodman, Boutingy) on Wednesday evening and came up with the partition shown below (the original un-annotated diagram is [here](https://github.com/DarkEnergyScienceCollaboration/BremertonRoundTrip/blob/master/images/Ladder.png?raw=true)). We did not have time for any further meetings and our subsequent progress is documented in our issues.

![round-trip flowchart]
(https://github.com/DarkEnergyScienceCollaboration/BremertonRoundTrip/blob/master/images/Ladder-annotated.png?raw=true)

## Generating self-consistent 3D delta fields and shear potentials

See the evolving examples in [this ipython notebook](https://github.com/DarkEnergyScienceCollaboration/BremertonRoundTrip/blob/master/notebooks/GaussianRandomFieldGeneration.ipynb).

## Generating galaxies

Prerequisites: randomfield (dkirkby/randomfield), fastcat (slosar/fastcat)

See fastcat doc for what are the limitations of this approach

### Generating phosim input catalogs

Use the generic driver in the fastcat.py

```
> test/driver.py --help
Usage: driver.py [options]

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --fov=value           Field of view (degrees)
  --fast                Settings very fast options for quick test, sets N=10
  -N value              Number of objects to create
  --grid_spacing=value  Grid Spacing
  --smooth=value        Smoothing in Mpc/h
  --bias=value          bias of tracer
  --zmean=value         Mean redhisft
  --deltaz=value        variance in redshift
  --iesig=value         intrinsic ellipiticy sigma
  --seed=value          Smoothing in Mpc/h
  --algo=value          Algorithm to use: peaks, lognormal, random
  --phosim=value        Set to make a phosim file
  --phosim_header=value
                        Where to read phosim header from. Empty for no header
  --phosim_many         If true, create per obj file
  --phosim_size=value   Size in arcsec of sersic gals
```

If you run it with --fast, it will set quick options: large pixels, massive smoothing, just 10 objects.

If you don't specify any post-processing options (just phosim at the moment), the results of the run will be lost in the mists of computer memory.
At minimum you run:

```
> test/driver.py --fast --phosim test.txt
```
which results in test.txt containing something like
```
object 0 0.000116787895692 -0.000434462140413 18.1945668055 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.95804892476 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.89172397066 2.11447339148 -30.6698445182 1
object 1 -5.43940050857e-05 0.000360472912017 16.0542534239 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.29824264367 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.85363329517 2.15792412147 -51.3304201462 1
object 2 0.000312944544007 -0.000327613995252 21.0248453622 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.29639576885 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.88483461942 2.12220210663 39.8307047576 1
object 3 -0.000301197992241 -0.000112510868186 19.9390718888 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.39070626725 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.86595520808 2.14367417968 84.2823603184 1
object 4 -0.000101031835465 -0.000219235237017 17.9739768469 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.50510311872 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.91606902881 2.08760746083 3.36968745407 1
object 5 -1.29271967738e-05 0.000329361192013 16.9903611641 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.39293534538 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.85011159196 2.16203174845 13.4624556986 1
object 6 6.59416981271e-05 1.81869826351e-05 16.1464334991 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.48559910364 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.88375673492 2.12341642944 1.91586929106 1
object 7 -9.78657970765e-05 0.000314333143467 19.9665720571 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.39956369942 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.93175448963 2.070656505 36.0039096324 1
object 8 0.000382797392061 0.000126114771564 18.3297360331 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.38433204132 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.96353943813 2.03713759058 79.5402631768 1
object 9 -0.000443908304726 -2.00479428436e-07 19.0918630381 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.38125312121 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.83319761879 2.18197970529 -89.5408360632 1
```

To generate per object file with some header, run something like
```
./test/driver.py --fast --phosim test%04d.txt --phosim_many --phosim_header=thead
```
This will, not surprisingly, create test0000.txt ... test0001.txt.

### Generating HDF5 files

You can store result of a file into a HDF5 format. E.g 

```
> test/driver.py --fast --phosim test.txt
```

can be done as two steps with an intermediate h5 files as

```
test/driver.py --fast -h5write test.h5
test/driver.py --h5read test.h5 --phosim test.txt
```

The HDF5 has one dataset which contains the structure python array.

Commit message:

update README for galsim drawing

README.md, after:

# BremertonRoundTrip

This is the repository for an informal hack project launched Aug 20-22 during the LSST collaboration meeting in Bremerton, WA.

The goal of this project is try and assemble a "round-trip" weak-lensing reference analysis that is suitable for
studying the impact of pixel-level systematics on cosmology.  The flow chart below shows the basic round-trip structure. Dashed blue lines show short cuts that provide intermediate comparison points and allow higher- and lower-level paths to be developed and tested independently.

Although our goals sound ambitious, the idea is to ruthlessly simplify each component and aim for a chain that is
complete rather than of high fidelity. A lot of detailed work is already in progress on pieces of this, so the
goal here is to "see the whole elephant" rather than work on an ear or a tusk.

Many of necessary pieces already exist so much of the work will involve selecting suitable code or algorithms from
the literature and figuring out how to connect them together.  The results will hopefully have some pedagogical value,
at least, and the process should help reveal where more effort is most needed to get scientifically useful results.

Our initial goal is to build a functional complete round trip rather than designing a software framework.  With this in mind, we are aiming for a set of reproducible recipes for performing each step and transfering data between them.

## Update for the 24-Aug-2015 WL telecon

We had a brief meeting as a group (Kirkby, Slosar, Walter, Burchat, Meyers, Roodman, Boutingy) on Wednesday evening and came up with the partition shown below (the original un-annotated diagram is [here](https://github.com/DarkEnergyScienceCollaboration/BremertonRoundTrip/blob/master/images/Ladder.png?raw=true)). We did not have time for any further meetings and our subsequent progress is documented in our issues.

![round-trip flowchart]
(https://github.com/DarkEnergyScienceCollaboration/BremertonRoundTrip/blob/master/images/Ladder-annotated.png?raw=true)

## Generating self-consistent 3D delta fields and shear potentials

See the evolving examples in [this ipython notebook](https://github.com/DarkEnergyScienceCollaboration/BremertonRoundTrip/blob/master/notebooks/GaussianRandomFieldGeneration.ipynb).

## Generating galaxies

Prerequisites: randomfield (dkirkby/randomfield), fastcat (slosar/fastcat)

See fastcat doc for what are the limitations of this approach

### Generating phosim input catalogs

Use the generic driver in the fastcat.py

```
> test/driver.py --help
Usage: driver.py [options]

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --fov=value           Field of view (degrees)
  --fast                Settings very fast options for quick test, sets N=10
  -N value              Number of objects to create
  --grid_spacing=value  Grid Spacing
  --smooth=value        Smoothing in Mpc/h
  --bias=value          bias of tracer
  --zmean=value         Mean redhisft
  --deltaz=value        variance in redshift
  --iesig=value         intrinsic ellipiticy sigma
  --seed=value          Smoothing in Mpc/h
  --algo=value          Algorithm to use: peaks, lognormal, random
  --phosim=value        Set to make a phosim file
  --phosim_header=value
                        Where to read phosim header from. Empty for no header
  --phosim_many         If true, create per obj file
  --phosim_size=value   Size in arcsec of sersic gals
```

If you run it with --fast, it will set quick options: large pixels, massive smoothing, just 10 objects.

If you don't specify any post-processing options (just phosim at the moment), the results of the run will be lost in the mists of computer memory.
At minimum you run:

```
> test/driver.py --fast --phosim test.txt
```
which results in test.txt containing something like
```
object 0 0.000116787895692 -0.000434462140413 18.1945668055 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.95804892476 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.89172397066 2.11447339148 -30.6698445182 1
object 1 -5.43940050857e-05 0.000360472912017 16.0542534239 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.29824264367 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.85363329517 2.15792412147 -51.3304201462 1
object 2 0.000312944544007 -0.000327613995252 21.0248453622 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.29639576885 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.88483461942 2.12220210663 39.8307047576 1
object 3 -0.000301197992241 -0.000112510868186 19.9390718888 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.39070626725 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.86595520808 2.14367417968 84.2823603184 1
object 4 -0.000101031835465 -0.000219235237017 17.9739768469 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.50510311872 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.91606902881 2.08760746083 3.36968745407 1
object 5 -1.29271967738e-05 0.000329361192013 16.9903611641 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.39293534538 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.85011159196 2.16203174845 13.4624556986 1
object 6 6.59416981271e-05 1.81869826351e-05 16.1464334991 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.48559910364 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.88375673492 2.12341642944 1.91586929106 1
object 7 -9.78657970765e-05 0.000314333143467 19.9665720571 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.39956369942 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.93175448963 2.070656505 36.0039096324 1
object 8 0.000382797392061 0.000126114771564 18.3297360331 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.38433204132 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.96353943813 2.03713759058 79.5402631768 1
object 9 -0.000443908304726 -2.00479428436e-07 19.0918630381 ../sky/sed_flat.txt 1.38125312121 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sersic2D 1.83319761879 2.18197970529 -89.5408360632 1
```

To generate per object file with some header, run something like
```
./test/driver.py --fast --phosim test%04d.txt --phosim_many --phosim_header=thead
```
This will, not surprisingly, create test0000.txt ... test0001.txt.

### Generating HDF5 files

You can store result of a file into a HDF5 format. E.g

```
> test/driver.py --fast --phosim test.txt
```

can be done as two steps with an intermediate h5 files as

```
test/driver.py --fast -h5write test.h5
test/driver.py --h5read test.h5 --phosim test.txt
```

The HDF5 has one dataset which contains the structure python array.

## Drawing galaxies with GalSim

The galsim/postageStamp.py script will take a fastcat hdf5 output file as its input, and draw
postage stamp images into `galsim/out/gal0.fits`, `galsim/out/gal1.fits`, etc.  These are assumed to
be full-depth (180 visits) stacks in r-band.   The galaxy profile is exponential fixed at 0.3
arcseconds half light radius.  There are also options to specify the (Gaussian) PSF and postage
stampe size:

```
python galsim/postageStamp.py --help
usage: postageStamp.py [-h] [--nx NX] [--PSF_FWHM PSF_FWHM] [--PSF_e1 PSF_E1]
                       [--PSF_e2 PSF_E2] [--outdir OUTDIR]
                       h5read

positional arguments:
  h5read               Fastcat hdf5 input file.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help           show this help message and exit
  --nx NX              Postage stamp size in pixels.
  --PSF_FWHM PSF_FWHM  PSF FWHM in arcsec (default 0.7)
  --PSF_e1 PSF_E1      PSF e1 (default 0.0)
  --PSF_e2 PSF_E2      PSF e2 (default 0.0)
  --outdir OUTDIR      Output directory (default 'out/')
```
